[MUSIC]
I was a generalist as a kid.
I loved all kinds of stuff.
I thought I could be a scientist,
I thought maybe a physicist,
maybe a chemist, no idea really.
I really was clueless as I grew up.
I was a heavy athlete, I loved doing
cross country skiing and mountain biking,
these were the things I spent my time on.
I didn't worry about the future.
I had an idyllic childhood.
And then you turn 16, or 17,
or 18, and you start to think,
I gotta do something fun with my life.
And that's where I started
picking up these challenges and
realizing what it was
that kept driving me.
I loved solving math problems,
I loved doing chemistry, or
doing calculus challenges
with my friends after school.
This is the kind of stuff I did,
just on the side, with no real focus.
So it wasn't until I really started to try
to pick something to do that I found these
specific applications with the things I
like doing, actually come up all the time.
So as I graduated from university,
I actually took a job at Pratt &
Whitney Canada, which is one of our small
jet engine manufacturing companies.
While I worked at Pratt & Whitney,
it was fascinating,
we got to do things like test
out jet engine controls.
And so I had all this fun exposure to
aeronautics, but the challenging part
about aeronautics is that there's
an extremely strong safety requirement.
And so everything you do has
to be buttoned down, and
has to work precisely
every time you do it.
And so the development in that area really
is dictated by 30 year old technology
that's been vetted over,
and over, and over.
And so that was really frustrating for me,
as a young engineer trying to get things
moving and trying to change the world.
So I took those wonderful experiences
from the aerospace industry, and
that focus on safety, and
I turned it into a graduate career,
where I entered the aeronautics and
astronautics, and started building drones.
Yeah, it's problem solving,
it’s algorithm development.
It's taking a robot task, something like
landing a drone on a moving car, or trying
to get a self driving car to park itself
or navigate through an obstacle field.
All of these problems are really
practical, really applied, and
you can really see the results
of them as you're building,
you can see how well it's working.
If the drone misses the car,
it crashes and
fails, there is sort of an exciting
aspect to that that's really fun, right?
So to make a self-driving car, you have
to first start by turning a regular
automobile into a drive-by-wire vehicle.
This means that you can plug a computer
into the car and send commands to the gas,
steering, and brakes, and the car will
actually execute those maneuvers.
Once you've got that capability,
you can literally start to program
it to do whatever you want.
From there, you have to add
a whole suite of sensors, and
the computation in the trunk,
and with all these pieces you can start to
built up your own self-driving vehicle.
So my research lab is built around
the idea that if we have a real test bed,
and we put it in a real situations,
we'll learn a lot more quickly what
the limitations are in current methods.
What we're looking at, really, is finding
research problems that are particularly
suited to the academic community.
So we're looking at those problems like
dealing with adverse weather conditions,
or dealing with some of these edge cases,
or trying to theoretically demonstrate
that the methods we're using have
a safety aspect that we can quantify.
So there's really lots of specific
problems that we can work on in academia,
we can try a bunch of crazy ideas.
We can explore this space of possible
solutions a little bit faster than,
or maybe a little less guided,
than you might do in industry.
Definitely going to see increased
performance from these vehicles.
We're going to see things like the Tesla
autopilot just getting better and
better every year.
And we're going to see fleets of
vehicles that really are autonomous,
working in restricted domains where
they know they're safe to operate.
But I still think that we have a lot
of work to do to get that final
full autonomy anywhere you
want to drive it level.
This is just because there's so many
different ways that the cars can fail.
There's so many different situations
that they have to understand.
So many strange conditions that you
just can't predict ahead of time.
So, if you're new to self driving, and
you think this is a wonderful area, and
you want to try it, I think the first
thing you want to do, obviously,
is follow this Coursera specialization.
But from there, there's hundreds of ways
that you can enrich your knowledge, and
get a better sense of how
to get into this area.
This whole field depends on the
fundamentals of robotics, the fundamentals
of computer vision, the fundamentals
of neural networks and deep learning.
And these are areas that
you can study extensively.
And what's really fun about those is
they also apply to other wonderful
applications.
So think robot manipulators,
think cell phone camera systems, and
improved features for taking videos,
drone flights, and tracking of objects.
There's tons of things you
can do with this stuff.
And for
those of you thinking about whether or
not self driving is a direction to go
in and is a good avenue to explore,
it's absolutely clear that this
market is just going to keep growing.
There's just an insatiable demand for
the students that are coming
out of our programs.
It's pretty amazing, yeah.
It's been a long time since I played with
random math problems after school, right?
And so to think that I'm now
working on self driving cars, and
I've been playing with drones for
years, I'm just a lucky guy.
[MUSIC]